# penguins-game
Python to solve a board game: http://www.smartgames.eu/en/smartgames/penguins-pool-party

We were given this game and when I played or saw people playing I couldn't stop thinking "How hard would be to solve it in Python?".

The aim of this repository is to test different ways to solve the system.

Please buy the game if you like the idea.

See the booklet/ for the scans of the challenges.

# How to play
The aim of the game is to have some penguins in a board (pre-set positions, following one of the challenges in the booklet) and then put the ice around the penguins.

See for example:




# Where to start
## From scratch
Look at the pieces (buy the game or see ). Start coding as you wish.


## Use positions.py and public_utils.py
The file positions.py has a list of positions for each piece (L, C, Z and Z) (names based on the shape of the pieces). This was generated by hand (thanks Jen!). I thought that given the shapes of the pieces, size and shape of the board it would be faster to list them than generate them programatically.

Read the documentation in public.py and public_utils.py to understand how to use them.

## Check already done solutions
In the repository there are already done implementations - check them and improve them, benchmark, play with them, etc.

The problem of the implemented solutions is that they work using "brute force". They are faster than a human but not smarter or as smart as a human. A possible implementation would be to mimic a human player: to not try stupid combinations. E.g. if a board has 4 penguins there aren't going to be any empty spaces: do leave empty spaces. Or do not try invalid combinations as some solutions are doing (not cutting the search tree).
